Jonathan Barrow
9/1/2020

Reading: Today’s reading covered the topic of networks. LAn is a local area network used for small offices while the largest kind of network is a WAN, 
like the internet. Another widely used network is a VPN or virtual private network. 
This is a single channel between two endpoints that keeps data encrypted. Nodes are what we are used to in networking. 
They are computers, printers, etc that can send, receive, create, or store data. A port is a specific connection between two or more network devices. 
If an IP address is a hotel, then ports are rooms within the hotel.

Notes: 
3 different kinds of ‘server’, hardware component, OS such as MS 2016, function such as DHCP DNS or File Server.
WSUS, you do not want the sales department computers to be not updated and others to be fine. You want consistent configurations.
DHCP, has a pool of numbers that it keeps track of and assigns. Centralized service.
Whether the server is DHCP or DNS then it is going to be the authoritative computer for that particular service. 
3 Levels of a Server
Hardware
HP product or Dell t140
OS
Red Hat/ Linux/ Windows Server
Service Server
AD
DNS
DHCP
File Server
Web Server
 Servers are just like computers but with a specific process.
When people are talking about servers ask about what they are talking about, hardware, OS, or function.
One server will have multiple computers that are enslaved to it. 



		
Two main categories in network topology, physical or logical.

VLAN, virtual local area network. Both computers run a cat6 to switch but are on a different LAN. 

Bare minimum for a topology is two computers connected with a cat6 or similar. 


4 topologies for network plus exam
Bus Topology
Single cable from one end of the network to the other with computers stemming off of the single line. Also called a line topology. 
Very affordable and budget friendly.
Single line is a single point of failure.
This is a half duplex meaning that only one way of data transfer is allowed.
Ring topology
Here each computer is plugged into each other and has at least 2 neighbors/.
High speed and low risk of data issues.
If you add another ring then the network moves from half duplex to full duplex.
Not one single point of failure.
Not really scalable, you would have to shut down the whole network to add another computer. 
Star Topology
All computers are plugged into a switch. Star topology mimics client server. 
Computers could be called clients and switch called server.
Switch is the single point of failure, same as router. 
Can add computers (clients) without network interruptions. 
Mesh Topology
Each computer connected to every other computer.
Very resilient to failure.
Lots of lines so very costly in resources and time. 
More used for server clusters.

3 types of Wireless topologies
Mesh
Used for expanding the range of home/work wifi by adding ranges/devices.
Each Mesh access point talks to each other. 
Your device is going to find the shortest route to the modem. 
Infrastructure
Access points plugged in via cat6 that goes to the internet and the access points transmit wireless signals.
Adhoc
Printer and a laptop and they want to directly connect to the printer.
Single connection. 
